I found that it’s significantly easier using a coding agent for a task like this as opposed to using a regular AI chatbot as Project 1 required. One thing that makes it easier is that less copying and pasting is required, especially since the coding agent is able to run trials and errors on its side before even implementing the code and updating the repository. I also feel that the coding agent is able to do a lot deeper of an analysis compared to even the deep-thinking options with AI chatbots.
With Project 1, the AI chatbot controls a large portion of everything. You could provide well written and directed prompts, but you were still at the mercy of the chatbot to provide accurate analyses and usable figures. And with each additional prompt, the chatbot could create something entirely different. It would be nearly impossible to open a new chat and have it produce the exact same thing again. With the method for this project, now most of the control is within the code and the repository. After an initial prompt, the code and workflow are established. The workflow is repeatable and this way you can actually create the exact same things again. There is also more of an audit trail now. There is code and context behind what is being produced instead of just a chatlog with a chatbot.
If I had one more week, I would try running the repository with a few other datasets just to see how repeatable the workflow is beyond this specific data. I would want to see how the coding agent handles datasets that don’t have the same structure. I would also want to see if I can get the workflow to produce multiple figures that provide a deeper analysis and answer a few other questions besides the question we used for this project.
I can see a lot of applications of this in the accounting world, but one would be related to my advanced managerial accounting class and specifically cost accounting. Having a coding agent create a workflow like this would help with quickly calculating costs and could also pull in things such as sales data and market data to calculate proposed pricing decisions. Instead of doing all those calculations by hand, you would be able to just plug the raw data into the repository and have a useful analysis within minutes.
